---
layout: post
title: "Cookies and Sessions"
date: 2016-02-04
description: "A description of cookies and sessions"
keywords: ""
categories:
-
tags:
-
---

Good morning computer programmers. Welcome back to my blog.

Today we are going to be talking about cookies and sessions. We are going to look into why computers use cookies and sessions and how they make our computers more functional and user friendly. 

The first question we are going to try to answer is: when and why do we use cookies? The purpose of cookies is to allow users to navigate websites more efficiently and perform certain special functions.  Cookies, also known as browser cookies or tracking cookies, are small encrypted files located in browser directories that our browsers use to keep track of user information. Every time a user accesses a website, cookies are created. The creation of a cookie simply means that a website sends a small text file filled with user information to a browser. The purpose of this is so, the next time a user accesses the website, the website will already have information about the user. Computer cookies, however, are not limited to individual websites; cookies can be shared across hundreds of sites. Cookies are the most useful, in my opinion, for usernames and passwords since cookies memorize them and allow you to not have to reenter them. Because most websites are so reliant on cookies to enhance a user’s experience on their website, disabling cookies may prevent users from accessing certain sites.

Sessions are very similar to cookies in that a session is created every time a user accesses a website. Sessions keep a user logged into a website and allows the website to remember you. Unlike cookies, sessions are not the actual data sent to a browser, but tell the browser to remember you over a certain period of time. Computer sessions help users by not making users reenter information during their time on a website.

I hope y’all learned something today about cookies and sessions. See you next time!

Sources:
http://shiflett.org/articles/the-truth-about-sessions
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3804209/what-are-sessions-how-do-they-work
http://lifehacker.com/5853483/a-guide-to-sniffing-out-passwords-and-cookies-and-how-to-protect-yourself-against-it
http://rubylearning.com/blog/2009/09/30/cookie-based-sessions-in-sinatra/