---
layout: post
title: "Websites"
date: 2016-04-26
description: "What are websites and how do they work?""
keywords: ""
categories:
-
tags:
-
---

Good morning computer programmers. Welcome back to my blog!

Today we are going to talk about websites. We are going to look at what a website really is and how they work.

In short, a website is simply a collection of files. These files are typically made up from HTML, which tells a server how to display a website, and CSS and JavaScript, which give instructions for the website. Websites are accessible to everyone because our computers are able to connect with servers, which may be half way around the world, in order to give us information via the Internet.

Our computers use DNS (Domain naming system) to access websites. DNS is a system that gives every computer an IP address, which our computers use to connect with each other. When we type a domain address in our browsers, our computers are able to translate the domain address into an IP address in order for our computers to access a webpage on a server. This connection between server and user that is established by DNS allows us to visit webpages 24/7. Our computers also use a protocol called HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol) to receive information from servers. HTTP requests information from a server in order for information to be displayed on a webpage. To make sure this information is secure, we also use HTTPS, the secure version of HTTP, which encrypts the messages from server to user. HTTPS uses a protocol called Secure Sockets Layer that encrypts messages to and fro servers so that anyone who intercepts the information cannot read it.  Without this protocol, the Internet would not be very secure and everyone could see everyone’s information.

I hope you now have a better understanding of how websites work and how our computers connect with servers.

Thanks for visiting my blog, see you next time!

Sources:
http://www.lubith.com/tutorials/how-a-website-works-and-why-do-i-need-web-hosting/
https://nycda.com/blog/how-the-internet-works/
http://www.bbc.co.uk/guides/z3tbgk7

