---
layout: post
title: "Github"
date: 2016-04-04
description: "A discussion about Github"
keywords: ""
categories:
-
tags:
-
---

Good morning computer programmers. Welcome to my new blog post.

Today we are going to be talking about a very useful tool of the computer science world: Github.

A simple description of GitHub, as described by techcrunch.com, is a code sharing and publishing service for programmers that can also be used as a social networking site. Github manages and stores revisions of projects.

Although Github is mostly used for code, techcrunch.com suggests that Github can be used to manage other types of files, such as Word documents or Final Cut projects. Github is essentially a filing system for any type of document. Github’s filing system is useful because files can easily be shared with other users.

Beyond Github’s file storing and sharing system, what makes Github special are its special functionalities. The most popular functionality of GitHub is forking.  Forking allows users to copy repositories from other user’s accounts. This enables users to take a project that they don’t have access to and modify it under their own account. If you make changes you’d like to share, after forking, you can send a notification called a “pull request” to the original owner. That user can then merge the changes found in your repo with the original repo. Before GitHub, if you wanted to contribute to an open source project you had to manually download the project’s source code, make your changes locally and then e-mail the changes to the project’s owner. Github simplifies this process. The fork, pull request, and merge functionalities make Github more efficient than all other online repositories. Furthermore, all of these features are free which makes Github accessible to everyone. Github makes money by selling private repositories and on-premise instances of its software to companies. 

Since Github encourages programmers to share and examine other programmers’ code, Github is a great resource for beginner coders. The beauty of Github is that a beginner computer programmer has all of the resources they need, all in one central repository, to learn from expert coders.

Thanks for visiting my blog! I hope you now have a better understanding of Github.



Sources:
http://techcrunch.com/2012/07/14/what-exactly-is-github-anyway/
https://github.com
http://www.howtogeek.com/180167/htg-explains-what-is-github-and-what-do-geeks-use-it-for/

